In this lesson we're gonna be looking at how install and configure a passport in our application.
We will then make a small change in our authentication system in order to make the API that we're gonna
build working properly.
Let's go ahead and open up our terminal and here
As always I'm going gonna isolate the new changes that I'll make into a new branch
all right
Now let's install passport by saying composer require laravel passport and hit return
Once laravel passport installed it needs some tables to hold the token stuffs.
So what we need to do here is to migrate the database migration that ships with the passport php artisan
migrate
next
We need to have encryption keys to generate secure access tokens.
We can do that
by saying php artisan passport install hit return.
as you can see that those command gives us personal access and password grant client that we can use to
generate access token after running those command
Let's go ahead and open up our user model
at the top here
Let's add a laravel passport
has api tokens trait
this trait provides a few helper methods which allows us to inspect the authenticated users token
then we can attach those trait here
next let's pull up config auth.php find the API
then here
Let's change the driver to
Passport
according to a laravel official guide that this will instruct our application to use passports taken guard
when authenticating
Incoming api requests.
Next let's pull open service provider then inside boot method
let's add Passport::routes by doing this way it will register some routes that necessary
to issue access tokens and revoke access tokens clients and personal access tokens
then at the top here we need to import the passport otherwise we're gonna get password not an exception
Let's save all changes and now we can verify the password routes in our terminal
php artisan route:list name passport
as you can see
we have a bunch of routes regarding to access token
but don't worry too much because what we really care about in this project might be just this one
all right
That's all step that we need to configure the passport at least in general.
Now here what I'm gonna show you could be additional step but this step will help you consuming api
from your javascript application much easier.
So that's open kernel php in http folder go to middleware group.
Then inside web section let's add laravel passport http middleware
create fresh token
create fresh API token class. So typically if you want to consume your API in your javascript application
you would need to manually attach the access token to the request especially when you would make a request
to the endpoint that need user to be authenticated.
For example if you would hit the creed or upload question endpoint then you would need to attach the token
in the request header like this
however by using this way passport will take care of all of this stuff for us out of the box under the hood
passport will attach a larvel token cookie to your outgoing responses which contains an encrypted JWT
passport will then use it to authenticate API request from your javascript application.
That's why I said this step will help you consuming your API much easier because you can hit to any
request to your API without need to explicitly passing the access token.
All right.
I think that's it for this video.
We've installed and configure passport for
API authentication in the next one
We're gonna continue and see how the request the access tokens.